Next up let's look at the method slice slice is another very useful one.
It does kind of what it sounds like.
It's similar to the string slice method.
It takes a portion of an array and it makes a new array with it so it doesn't impact the original doesn't
modify the original array but it allows you to select or copy a part of an array into a new array.
So let's take a look.
I have an array called animals.
It has a whole collection of animals and there are different types.
For example the first three animals in here are all swimmers.
So I could create a variable called swimmers and set that equal to animals dot slice and then I want
to slice starting at index 0 so I'll do that index 0 and then I'll keep going all the way until whale.
But the second number we provide is not going to be included.
So if I did zero up to index of two it doesn't include index of two.
And so if I look at swimmers now it's only shark and salmon.
So I need it to go to index three.
It always confuses me.
I mean I understand why they designed it this way but it does not include that index so it goes from
here including this one up to but not including this index.
So now if we go from zero to three we'll refresh the page.
We get swimmers.
Shark salmon and whale of course we can take something from the middle of the array.
Let's go with whale and bear.
Those are both mammals.
So let's select mammals equals animals dot slice what would be the correct indices here.
So I want whale and bear the starting index is 0 1 2 and the ending index.
We only want to go to index of three but we want to include that.
So we need to go to four.
So up until index of four we look at mammals we have whale and bear.
And now lastly let's get the reptiles lizard and tortoise.
So we could do let reptiles equals animals dot slice and we have a bunch of different options here.
We could do it explicitly going from index of what is this five here.
No four index of four to six.
Even though there is no index six the highest index is five right here.
This will work because it goes up to six not including.
So let's just verify.
Refresh the page.
We look at reptiles lizard and tortoise.
So that does work.
We also could have written it this way.
So I'll I'll duplicate this line and comment out the first one and change this to just be for.
If I just sliced from four it's going to assume it should go all the way to the end.
And if we verify it still works it goes from index of four until the end.
In our case there's only reptiles left in the array.
So that works and there's one other variety.
One other thing that we can do with slice.
We can pass in a negative number and if we pass a negative number it's going to count backwards or work
backwards from the end of the array.
So to select let's see these four.
They all have four legs.
So they are quadruped which who is a quadruped quadruped.
I'm not sure.
Well I looked it up and I was extremely wrong.
It's Quadra with a U PED to select those three.
I could do animals dot slice.
I could do what we did earlier and do it explicitly.
I could go from index of three to the end or I could call animals that slice negative three.
Let's make sure that I'm right and I am we go back three indices or three elements from the end and
you can actually combine those if you wanted to we can do animals dot slice past in a negative number
like negative and we'll do negative three again which gives us the last three items but I could tell
it go to negative 1.
So this would be fair to lizard.
So it goes three elements back and it stops one element back.
That's possible.
You can't do that as well.
And then if you just call slice with nothing animals that slice like this it makes a copy of the entire
array for you and you will see people do this as a quick way of making a copy of an array.
It doesn't impact the original it just makes a new one.
So we could go with let's copy equals animals that slice.
And now we have two versions copy and animals.
We'll talk about why someone would do this why make a copy and how is this different than some other
ways of copying.
And just a few videos we're going to return to concept and reference types but we have a couple more
methods to talk about.